docs/snapshots_docs.md, before:

# Snapshots
Snapshots are useful for backing up the current state of the database and quickly booting up and reducing the sync to tip time.

Below shows how to create your own snapshots, restore from the snapshot and how to use custom schemas

## EigenLayer hosted snapshots:
Get latest sidecar snapshots here, supplied by EigenLayer [https://sidecar.eigenlayer.xyz/snapshots/index.html](https://sidecar.eigenlayer.xyz/snapshots/index.html)
We heavily recommend syncing from genesis for mainnet and creating your own snapshots. We are hosting snapshots for the EigenLayer ecosystem to quickstart and have a good developer experience.


### `restore-snapshot`
```bash
./bin/sidecar restore-snapshot --help
Restore the database from a previously created snapshot file.

Note: This command restores --database.schema_name only if it's present in InputFile snapshot.
Follow the snapshot docs if you need to convert the snapshot to a different schema name than was used during snapshot creation.

Usage:
  sidecar restore-snapshot [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                help for restore-snapshot
      --input_file string   Path to the snapshot file (required)

Global Flags:
  -c, --chain string                              The chain to use (mainnet, holesky, preprod (default "mainnet")
      --database.db_name string                   PostgreSQL database name (default "sidecar")
      --database.host string                      PostgreSQL host (default "localhost")
      --database.password string                  PostgreSQL password
      --database.port int                         PostgreSQL port (default 5432)
      --database.schema_name string               PostgreSQL schema name (default "public")
      --database.user string                      PostgreSQL username (default "sidecar")
      --datadog.statsd.enabled                    e.g. "true" or "false"
      --datadog.statsd.url string                 e.g. "localhost:8125"
      --debug                                     "true" or "false"
      --ethereum.chunked_batch_call_size int      The number of calls to make in parallel when using the chunked batch call method (default 10)
      --ethereum.contract_call_batch_size int     The number of contract calls to batch together when fetching data from the Ethereum node (default 25)
      --ethereum.native_batch_call_size int       The number of calls to batch together when using the native eth_call method (default 500)
      --ethereum.rpc-url string                   e.g. "http://<hostname>:8545"
      --ethereum.use_native_batch_call            Use the native eth_call method for batch calls (default true)
      --prometheus.enabled                        e.g. "true" or "false"
      --prometheus.port int                       The port to run the prometheus server on (default 2112)
      --rewards.generate_staker_operators_table   Generate staker operators table while indexing
      --rewards.validate_rewards_root             Validate rewards roots while indexing (default true)
      --rpc.grpc-port int                         gRPC port (default 7100)
      --rpc.http-port int                         http rpc port (default 7101)
```

#### Example use:
```
./bin/sidecar restore-snapshot \
  --input_file=<file> \
  --database.host=localhost \
  --database.user=sidecar \
  --database.password=... \
  --database.port=5432 \
  --database.db_name=sidecar \
  --database.schema_name=public 
```

### `create-snapshot`
```bash
./bin/sidecar create-snapshot --help
Create a snapshot of the database.

Usage:
  sidecar create-snapshot [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                          help for create-snapshot
      --output_file string            Path to save the snapshot file to (required)

Global Flags:
  -c, --chain string                              The chain to use (mainnet, holesky, preprod (default "mainnet")
      --database.db_name string                   PostgreSQL database name (default "sidecar")
      --database.host string                      PostgreSQL host (default "localhost")
      --database.password string                  PostgreSQL password
      --database.port int                         PostgreSQL port (default 5432)
      --database.schema_name string               PostgreSQL schema name (default "public")
      --database.user string                      PostgreSQL username (default "sidecar")
      --datadog.statsd.enabled                    e.g. "true" or "false"
      --datadog.statsd.url string                 e.g. "localhost:8125"
      --debug                                     "true" or "false"
      --ethereum.chunked_batch_call_size int      The number of calls to make in parallel when using the chunked batch call method (default 10)
      --ethereum.contract_call_batch_size int     The number of contract calls to batch together when fetching data from the Ethereum node (default 25)
      --ethereum.native_batch_call_size int       The number of calls to batch together when using the native eth_call method (default 500)
      --ethereum.rpc-url string                   e.g. "http://<hostname>:8545"
      --ethereum.use_native_batch_call            Use the native eth_call method for batch calls (default true)
      --prometheus.enabled                        e.g. "true" or "false"
      --prometheus.port int                       The port to run the prometheus server on (default 2112)
      --rewards.generate_staker_operators_table   Generate staker operators table while indexing
      --rewards.validate_rewards_root             Validate rewards roots while indexing (default true)
      --rpc.grpc-port int                         gRPC port (default 7100)
      --rpc.http-port int                         http rpc port (default 7101)
```

#### Example use:
```
./bin/sidecar create-snapshot \     
  --database.host=localhost \
  --database.user=sidecar \
  --database.password=sidecar \
  --database.port=5432 \
  --database.db_name=sidecar \
  --database.schema_name=public \
  --database.create_snapshot_output=example.dump
```

## Converting the Schema of a Dump

You will need to convert the dump to the target schema before restoring. 
Alternatively, if you're confident it's safe, you can restore from the dump's (usually public) schema and rename in your database to desired schema name.  

This section provides a helpful step-by-step runbook for converting a snapshot dump to use a different schema name. 

### Use our script (experimental)
```
# Can use the script
./scripts/convertSnapshotSchema.sh 

```bash
./scripts/convertSnapshotSchema.sh <inputSchema> <outputSchema> input_file.dump output_file.dump <db_username> <db_password>
```

### You can manually instead use:
```bash
# Open your terminal and create a temporary database to work with:
psql -c "CREATE DATABASE temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db;"

# Use the Sidecar CLI to restore the snapshot dump into the temporary database:
./bin/sidecar restore-snapshot \
    --database.host=localhost \
    --database.user=... \
    --database.password=... \
    --database.port=5432 \
    --database.db_name=temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db \
    --database.schema_name=<input schema name> \
    --input_file=snapshot.dump

# Connect to the temporary database and execute the SQL command to rename the schema:
psql -d temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db -c "ALTER SCHEMA <input schema name> RENAME TO <output schema name>;"

# Use the Sidecar CLI to create a new snapshot with the updated schema:
./bin/sidecar create-snapshot \
    --database.host=localhost \
    --database.user=... \
    --database.password=... \
    --database.port=5432 \
    --database.db_name=temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db \
    --database.schema_name=<output schema name> \
    --output_file=new_snapshot.dump

# Drop the temporary database to free up resources:
psql -c "DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db;"
```

Commit message:

more descriptive overwrite in the docs

docs/snapshots_docs.md, after:

# Snapshots
Snapshots are useful for backing up the current state of the database and quickly booting up and reducing the sync to tip time.

Below shows how to create your own snapshots, restore from the snapshot and how to use custom schemas

## EigenLayer hosted snapshots:
Get latest sidecar snapshots here, supplied by EigenLayer [https://sidecar.eigenlayer.xyz/snapshots/index.html](https://sidecar.eigenlayer.xyz/snapshots/index.html)
We heavily recommend syncing from genesis for mainnet and creating your own snapshots. We are hosting snapshots for the EigenLayer ecosystem to quickstart and have a good developer experience.


### `restore-snapshot`
```bash
./bin/sidecar restore-snapshot --help
Restore the database from a previously created snapshot file.

Note: It is recommended to use a fresh, clean database for restoration. Objects in the snapshot will overwrite existing objects in the database.
This command restores --database.schema_name only if it's present in InputFile snapshot.
Follow the snapshot docs if you need to convert the snapshot to a different schema name than was used during snapshot creation.

Usage:
  sidecar restore-snapshot [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                help for restore-snapshot
      --input_file string   Path to the snapshot file (required)

Global Flags:
  -c, --chain string                              The chain to use (mainnet, holesky, preprod (default "mainnet")
      --database.db_name string                   PostgreSQL database name (default "sidecar")
      --database.host string                      PostgreSQL host (default "localhost")
      --database.password string                  PostgreSQL password
      --database.port int                         PostgreSQL port (default 5432)
      --database.schema_name string               PostgreSQL schema name (default "public")
      --database.user string                      PostgreSQL username (default "sidecar")
      --datadog.statsd.enabled                    e.g. "true" or "false"
      --datadog.statsd.url string                 e.g. "localhost:8125"
      --debug                                     "true" or "false"
      --ethereum.chunked_batch_call_size int      The number of calls to make in parallel when using the chunked batch call method (default 10)
      --ethereum.contract_call_batch_size int     The number of contract calls to batch together when fetching data from the Ethereum node (default 25)
      --ethereum.native_batch_call_size int       The number of calls to batch together when using the native eth_call method (default 500)
      --ethereum.rpc-url string                   e.g. "http://<hostname>:8545"
      --ethereum.use_native_batch_call            Use the native eth_call method for batch calls (default true)
      --prometheus.enabled                        e.g. "true" or "false"
      --prometheus.port int                       The port to run the prometheus server on (default 2112)
      --rewards.generate_staker_operators_table   Generate staker operators table while indexing
      --rewards.validate_rewards_root             Validate rewards roots while indexing (default true)
      --rpc.grpc-port int                         gRPC port (default 7100)
      --rpc.http-port int                         http rpc port (default 7101)
```

#### Example use:
```
./bin/sidecar restore-snapshot \
  --input_file=<file> \
  --database.host=localhost \
  --database.user=sidecar \
  --database.password=... \
  --database.port=5432 \
  --database.db_name=sidecar \
  --database.schema_name=public 
```

### `create-snapshot`
```bash
./bin/sidecar create-snapshot --help
Create a snapshot of the database.

Usage:
  sidecar create-snapshot [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                          help for create-snapshot
      --output_file string            Path to save the snapshot file to (required)

Global Flags:
  -c, --chain string                              The chain to use (mainnet, holesky, preprod (default "mainnet")
      --database.db_name string                   PostgreSQL database name (default "sidecar")
      --database.host string                      PostgreSQL host (default "localhost")
      --database.password string                  PostgreSQL password
      --database.port int                         PostgreSQL port (default 5432)
      --database.schema_name string               PostgreSQL schema name (default "public")
      --database.user string                      PostgreSQL username (default "sidecar")
      --datadog.statsd.enabled                    e.g. "true" or "false"
      --datadog.statsd.url string                 e.g. "localhost:8125"
      --debug                                     "true" or "false"
      --ethereum.chunked_batch_call_size int      The number of calls to make in parallel when using the chunked batch call method (default 10)
      --ethereum.contract_call_batch_size int     The number of contract calls to batch together when fetching data from the Ethereum node (default 25)
      --ethereum.native_batch_call_size int       The number of calls to batch together when using the native eth_call method (default 500)
      --ethereum.rpc-url string                   e.g. "http://<hostname>:8545"
      --ethereum.use_native_batch_call            Use the native eth_call method for batch calls (default true)
      --prometheus.enabled                        e.g. "true" or "false"
      --prometheus.port int                       The port to run the prometheus server on (default 2112)
      --rewards.generate_staker_operators_table   Generate staker operators table while indexing
      --rewards.validate_rewards_root             Validate rewards roots while indexing (default true)
      --rpc.grpc-port int                         gRPC port (default 7100)
      --rpc.http-port int                         http rpc port (default 7101)
```

#### Example use:
```
./bin/sidecar create-snapshot \     
  --database.host=localhost \
  --database.user=sidecar \
  --database.password=sidecar \
  --database.port=5432 \
  --database.db_name=sidecar \
  --database.schema_name=public \
  --database.create_snapshot_output=example.dump
```

## Converting the Schema of a Dump

You will need to convert the dump to the target schema before restoring. 
Alternatively, if you're confident it's safe, you can restore from the dump's (usually public) schema and rename in your database to desired schema name.  

This section provides a helpful step-by-step runbook for converting a snapshot dump to use a different schema name. 

### Use our script (experimental)
```
# Can use the script
./scripts/convertSnapshotSchema.sh 

```bash
./scripts/convertSnapshotSchema.sh <inputSchema> <outputSchema> input_file.dump output_file.dump <db_username> <db_password>
```

### You can manually instead use:
```bash
# Open your terminal and create a temporary database to work with:
psql -c "CREATE DATABASE temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db;"

# Use the Sidecar CLI to restore the snapshot dump into the temporary database:
./bin/sidecar restore-snapshot \
    --database.host=localhost \
    --database.user=... \
    --database.password=... \
    --database.port=5432 \
    --database.db_name=temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db \
    --database.schema_name=<input schema name> \
    --input_file=snapshot.dump

# Connect to the temporary database and execute the SQL command to rename the schema:
psql -d temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db -c "ALTER SCHEMA <input schema name> RENAME TO <output schema name>;"

# Use the Sidecar CLI to create a new snapshot with the updated schema:
./bin/sidecar create-snapshot \
    --database.host=localhost \
    --database.user=... \
    --database.password=... \
    --database.port=5432 \
    --database.db_name=temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db \
    --database.schema_name=<output schema name> \
    --output_file=new_snapshot.dump

# Drop the temporary database to free up resources:
psql -c "DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS temp_sidecar_dump_schema_conversion_db;"
```
